
Most of the Rails websites we deploy have a similar configs.
At Newfangled we employ Apache rewrite rules to keep our page caching clean and simple. The regular expression for defining the rewrite rule can be a bit hard to remember, and we are constantly tweaking it. 

Tested and deployed on Apache 2.2+ on CentOS

h2. Rewrite Rules

We extensively use Rails page caching. We write our page cache into public/cache, which makes it easy to expire the entire cache on the site. The "fingertips guys":http://www.fngtps.com/2006/01/lazy-sweeping-the-rails-page-cache
explains it well.

Our sites generate javascript which is page cached, so we have added in a line to apache look for js files.
Having a wildcard for the file extensions means, apache will not look inside ??public/javascripts?? or ??public/stylesheets"" but instead will look in ??public/cache/javascripts?? or ??public/cache/stylesheets?? and will return a 404. Resulting in plain looking pages.



h2. ErrorDocument

A lot of the websites we write are replacing php sites. Consequently there are legacy urls with the .php extension. Assuming that php is installed on the server, accessing a legacy php url will bypass Rails and render the default "no file of  name". 

* This isn't useful to the user.
* It's not pretty, as Apache will render a bare page. 
* Users will think they have "broken the website".

Via ErrorDocument we can render a "smarter page". 
This assumes that you have routes in your Rails app to handle 404 and 403 errors.
Since we are now back in the Rails stack, we can be more useful to what we display to users. Ie: offer search results, or at the very least the page that is rendered will be consistent with the rest of the site.

After editing the config file, you should test it with Apaches configtest utiltiy.

??apachectl -t??


If everything is fine it will return "Syntax OK". If not it will return information on the errors it found. 
This will only parse the active config file used by Apache. 

To parse a config file outside of the apache config directory

??apachectl -t -f /path/to/your/config/file??

